# Lesson 1: Introducing Dart
Recommended Time: 1 Day (But learn at your one pace)

In this lesson you will just get to know the Dart programming language briefly. If you have never done programming previously, don’t be overwhelmed or intimidated. We have further guides and lessons to prepare for you. Just spend more time on first chapter that way things will get easier and easier further you go.

## Project

Our guides and plans will be based in project first approach. So get ready to get your hands dirty. There is no alternative to practice. So please don’t skip any projects. We suggest you do more that we tell you to do.

### Project 1: Hello world in Dart with DartPad

Write a program that will print hello world in the output. Use [DartPad](https://dartpad.dev) that way you don’t have to install Dart in your machine yet.

### Project 2: Install Dart in your device

Well, though you can move further in the chapter without installing Dart and just using the DartPad, we recommend you to install Dart in your machine. Resources will provide you links to get started guide for Dart that will teach you how to download and install Dart in your system. Follow the official guide step by step. Don’t get discouraged if you run into problems. Try again and again. Use google to search for errors if you receive any.

### Project 3: Write and run Hello world in Dart with VS Code

Well, once you have Dart installed, you also need a text editor where you can write your code. We recommend using VS Code. However if you are already using something else, for now you can stick to that as well. Install VS Code, links in the resources. Install Dart extension for VS Code and then write and run a hello world dart code in VS Code

### Project 4: Share in Social Network

Make a nice code screenshot with the hello world program you have written (use resource section to use a tool to create a code image) and share in your socials that you have started learning Dart & Flutter and you are more than excited to write your Hello world in Dart.

## Resources

- [DartPad](https://dartpad.dev)
- [Learn to Install Dart](https://dart.dev/get-dart)
- [Language Tour](https://dart.dev/guides/language/language-tour)